# 18-290: Signals and Systems

| Category | Difficulty |
|:-:       | :-:        |
| HW       | 5          |
| Exams    | 5          |

Probably the most theoretical class in the ECE core, 18-290 introduces the math
foundations for working with signals. This class is a very standard math-style
class, where you learn definitions in class, practice them on homework problems,
and are tested with similarly-difficult problems on exams. It's very straightforward,
and as long as you can keep up with the class pace, you should be okay. There are no
labs in this class, so this class is often taken with a core class with lab, such as
220 or 240. A thing to note however, is that the class does include a Matlab component,
in place of traditional lab work to account for practical appication of key concepts 
taught in lecture.

## Lectures and Recitation

Lectures are very straightforward in this class, and are almost taught as a continuous
one big lecture, meaning content you learn from the class before bleeds right into the
next class segment. If you miss a class, this can hurt, but if you keep up, it's nice
to be able to follow along the smooth curriculum. There is a textbook for this class,
but you probably won't need it unless you find the lectures hard to follow. However, 
example questions and theoretical conepts covered in the textbook work as good supplemenrtary
material when preparing for tests, or when faced with a question type on the homework, not 
discussed in lecture.

Recitations are used to review lecture material, but if you feel that you have the lecture
material understood well, then you can probably skip recitation. The main benefit to attending
recitation would be that questions similar to the one's on the homework for the week are covered
removing any confusion you may have when trying to solve a question of that type. It's also still
good to use for practice if you want it, e.g. before exams, since the professors personally pick
out which questions TA's are supposed to cover in recitation. It can also be good to ask questions 
about HW if you don't feel like going to OH, which due to the nature of the HW's are usually crowded.

## Homeworks

Homework difficulty can range from anywhere between 1-2 hours of work, to taking many 
multiple hours to solve just a few questions. This largely depends on the lecturer involved
and the content they cover in lecture before assigning the homework. For the most part,
if a question type is not covered in lecture, there is a high chance there is a similar
example in the textbook, so reviewing the textbok is advised. If neither the lecture notes
or textbook end up proving useful, then going to OH to ask about how to do questions is 
always a viable option. Having a study group to check answers can also be very helpful.

Every homework set also includes a Matlab question at the end, which largely expects you to
know at least the core functionality of Matlab pretty well, since only a single recitation
session is allocated to going over the fundamentals of Matlab, most of which are not helpful
in solving the questions. These matlab prompts historically take a lot of time to work out
so starting them early is highly advised, in case you need to go to OH to clarify some doubts.

Sometimes the calculations in these problems can take a bit of space to simplify,
so imo it's not really worth it to LaTeX HWs in this class as it is in [concepts](../math_science_reqs/21127.md),
but as always it's up to your personal preference.

## Exams

Exams are usually not much harder than HW problems. There are times that questions are asked
which have never been covered before, but if you know the concepts well, these questions can
be tackled without much difficulty, just don't get tripped up when faced with such questions.
It can be the case that an exam feels difficult, but it's not because there is content you 
haven't studied or seen before, it's usually due to problems that are long or have ugly calculations,
of which there are plenty in the exam. Also, it could be because you don't know what method to use
in order to solve the problem. Therefore, it is important to focus on speed while doing the exams,
some skills you should focus on are:

- Identifying what type of method the question is asking for
- Recognizing well-known forms so you can simplify them quickly
- Knowing your integral math very fluently
- Doing algebra/calculations fast

Occasionally, exams may include proof type questions of concepts covered in class, so knowing
the core concepts well before attempting an exam would be half the battle already done. Also
attempting every question will allow graders to give partial credit, so it is important to not
freeze up if faced with a challenging question and just write down anything you may think is correct.

Unlike most classes, you will not be provided with a practice exam to gauge the difficulty,
so knowing people who have taken the class prior, and understanding the type of questions that 
are asked is highly advised.

## How to do well

- Just go to class. The material may be learnable on your own, but going
  to class will be the most efficient way to learn. There are also quizzes
  in class sometimes that can boost your grade, so you might as well go.

- Categorize the types of problems you see on the homework. There are only
  so many types of problems that are tested in the class, so if you have them
  organized well, you can identify them quickly and solve them on exams and homeworks.

- The course staff usually provides supplemental material about topics in the class.
  You should look towards those for reference if you feel like you're falling behind,
  or if you want to read ahead of course schedule.
